{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red23\green74\blue153;
\red247\green164\blue13;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c10588\c37255\c66667;
\cssrgb\c98039\c69804\c2745;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11900\viewh9340\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl660\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs60 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Common Carotid Artery Imbrication as an Adjunct to Carotid Endarterectomy to Prevent Postoperative Carotid Kinking\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs26 \cf2 Authors:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ingentaconnect.com/search?option2=author&value2=Falkensammer,+Juergen"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf4 \strokec4 Falkensammer, Juergen}}
\f0\b0 ;\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ingentaconnect.com/search?option2=author&value2=Hakaim,+Albert+G."}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Hakaim, Albert G.}};\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ingentaconnect.com/search?option2=author&value2=Oldenburg,+W.+Andrew"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Oldenburg, W. Andrew}};\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ingentaconnect.com/search?option2=author&value2=Berland,+Todd+B."}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Berland, Todd B.}}\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb3 Source:
\f0\b0 \'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/sesc/tas"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 The American Surgeon}}, Volume 73,\'a0Number 3, March 2007, pp.\'a0276-278(3)\cb1 \

\f1\b \cb3 Publisher:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/sesc"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf4 \strokec4 Southeastern Surgical Congress}}
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \
\
Mobilization of a tortuous carotid artery during endarterectomy may produce redundancy of the carotid artery, and kinking. We reviewed our experience with common carotid artery (CCA) imbrication as a technique to shorten the common and internal carotid artery postendarterectomy and to avoid carotid kinking. A retrospective chart review of 163 patients who underwent carotid endarterectomy by the same surgeon between August 1998 and February 2006 was performed. All patients underwent conventional endarterectomy via a longitudinal arteriotomy with an indwelling shunt and patch angioplasty. Patients undergoing concomitant carotid artery imbrication were identified. Twelve patients who underwent carotid imbrication were identified. The mean age was 74.9 \'b1 8.8 years. Nine patients underwent imbrication of the CCA, and in three cases, the internal carotid artery was plicated. Follow-up duplex ultrasound examinations were available for 10 individuals and mean follow-up time was 10.7 months (range, 1\'9658 months). There were no cases of peri- or postoperative cerebral accidents and there was no case of restenosis. CCA imbrication as an adjunct to carotid endarterectomy is a feasible technique in preventing postoperative carotid kinking.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf2 Click\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17375786"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 here}}\'a0to read the full publication.\
\
}